[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm Sara Elkhaldy and
this is Mystery Teachings.
What if the power to transform
your life is already within you.
The chakra system
is your blueprint
for unlocking your
fullest potential,
guiding you from survival
instincts to spiritual mastery.
In this episode,
you will discover
how these energy centers
shape your reality
and how to harness their power
to create the life you deserve.
The chakra system is the
core foundational part
of all spiritual knowledge.
It is incorporated into every
spiritual system, both Eastern
and Western.
So let's break down what
this term chakra means.
In Sanskrit, this term literally
translates to cycle or a wheel.
When we think of what this
means as an energy center being
portrayed as a wheel, what
we're really looking at
is that this energy centers
are actually vortexes and even
portals that are transmitting
and both absorbing archetypal
energy.
Some spiritual systems
perceive 144 energy centers
within our energy field.
Some other systems see a
hard 15 dimensional framework
that corresponds to every
part of our energy field.
Some perceive 14.
Others see 12, 8.
In truth, there
are energy centers
going every which
way within our field.
So we're going to focus on
the classical seven chakra
system that are
foundational to all systems.
So we're going to start
with the root chakra.
The root chakra is known
as the Muladhara chakra.
And this in Sanskrit
translates directly
over to source, support.
And that would be
the perfect way
to identify this energy
center, because it is all
about source and support, but
from the survival instincts
and from the
perception of security.
So we're actually not talking
about source consciousness
when we're talking
about source here,
we're talking about resources.
And what are resources?
Resources lead to a sense
of not just security,
but even can unfold
into abundance.
The root center is responsible
for having us acquire and secure
resources, and that's how
it will feel supported.
This is the major truth
and the major perception
that comes from this chakra.
It is one that is core to our
ability to feel safe enough
to embody resources.
And that is why finances are
so linked with the root center.
It's because, what are finances?
They're our ability to acquire
resources and security.
And that's why this energy
center is strongly tied
into the themes of money,
finances, and our ability
to heal.
The reason why this
energy center is so
linked with our health and
our physical well-being
is because our physical
well-being depends on how much
we feel anchored and rooted
into the physical realm,
and that's how
health gets produced.
So healing and health
are both very connected
with our ability to feel
like we belong here.
And the root center
is the foundation
for all of the other
energy centers.
So we have a strong base
and we build on that
to our next energy center,
which is the sacral chakra.
The sacral chakra is equated
with the symbolism of water
because it is the fluidity
of our soul stream.
This energy center
is mainly responsible
and comes from the perception
of identity through creativity.
It is our creative identity.
It is the identity of our
emotional, sensual self.
That's why this energy
center is intimately linked
with our sexuality, because
sexual energy is really
creative energy.
Our unique soul stream being
conveyed through this energy
center mainly through our
artistic and sensual expression.
So this is the
energy center that
is most linked with our
emotional body and emotions.
But its truth also is
one that is based off
of our ability to feel
secure and safe in the world.
It's just that this sort
of safety and security
is much different
than the root centers.
It is what would
we do if we didn't
have to worry about our
core and most basic needs.
This energy center is
about our expression free
of being in fear or
in need of security.
It is about how we would show
up in our most fluid form,
because the sacral
chakra is our ability
to also receive and attract.
So when we're talking
about manifestation,
this center's very
important for that
because this is our center
where we're drawing forth
and we're attracting and
even magnetizing those things
that we're wanting to manifest.
When it really comes
to our identity
here in the physical realm,
the two lower centers add up
and they accumulate here
at the solar plexus region.
This is where the three lower
energy centers all combine.
Now, if the root center
has a core truth of one
of belonging and accumulating
resources to feel safe,
and the sacral chakra has a
truth and a perception that
comes from our creative,
unique expression,
then the solar plexus region is
our ability to feel worthy here
and to feel confident
enough to be visible.
If there were a key word to
equate the solar plexus region
with, it would be visibility.
Because this energy center is
known, for better or for worse,
with being intimately linked
with our ability to have drive,
to have ambition and motivation.
It is our ability
to feel safe enough
to go after what we wish
to accomplish and achieve
within this physical realm,
moving in the direction of that
which we wish to experience.
The solar plexus region
is the energy center
where we develop and heal
themes around self-worth,
worthiness, and the willpower
that comes with that ability
to feel worthy.
Confidence and willpower
and even ambition all
are facets of self-worth.
And this worthiness
is the number one core
theme that the solar
plexus region emits.
So these three lower
energy centers all
make up our lower
physical egoic identity.
And then we have
the higher centers
that represent our
spiritual identity,
and they all meet up
in the heart center.
The heart chakra is
responsible for being
the bridge between the lower
identity and the physical world,
as well as our higher self,
our higher energy centers,
and the spiritual world.
The heart center is what holds
all paradoxes and all duality.
So within this
energy center, you
can imagine how
much space it holds.
In fact, it is the unified
field of consciousness itself.
It's just being represented
in the fractal form.
The heart chakra is known in
Sanskrit as the Anahata chakra,
and what this translates
directly as is the unstruck
sound.
So this is what we are talking
about when we're really
talking about oneness.
The heart center is
our primordial oneness.
It is the causeless cause,
as they say in esotericism,
the creator and the created
before there was any separation.
So this is the original sound.
And that's why
this energy center
is known for having compassion,
forgiveness, and empathy.
And if we really think
about what compassion is,
compassion is our oneness, our
shared experience with others
beyond our physical vehicle.
We are all one at the very
core, and this whole experience
is based off of that
unconditional love.
So this is what's important
to understand when
we're talking about compassion.
It's coming from one.
That is, observing all of
this reality from a Canvas
or a stage of love.
And this love is
the backdrop that
allows us to have this
physical experience.
So the heart chakra being
the bridge between the lower
realms and the lower chakras and
the higher realm and the higher
chakras, now we ascend
into the higher chakras,
starting with the throat chakra.
The throat chakra is
our portal of truth
and it even is known
for purifying truth.
Now many of us think that
purification of truth
is probably one of
the least things that
come out of this energy center.
But how will we know
what is true for us
unless we use this vital portal
to be able to speak our truth.
That is why it's a
purification center.
It's because the
more that we are
able to communicate our inner
world, our inner thoughts
and inner reality to the outer
world, now all of the truths
meet up and all of
them start to purify
and mingle with one another.
And that's what this chakra
is most responsible for.
It is speaking and
conveying our truth.
And through that speaking
and voicing of our truth,
we are able to purify it.
We are able to have
more clarity around it
and therefore always
be able to refine
our reality and our truth.
So the throat chakra has a
very large responsibility.
It has the
responsibility of being
able to communicate and
to share who we are,
who all of our energy centers
leading up and culminating
to the throat chakra are,
and then speaking that
into the world.
And it's through this
portal that we're
able to really share our reality
and really share our identity
with the external world.
So as we purify our truth
through the throat chakra,
now our perception
becomes more and more
refined until it awakens
into the third eye chakra.
The third eye chakra is possibly
the most popular chakra.
This chakra is located directly
in the center of the eyebrows
and then pulled
deeper into the brain,
right at the intersection with
the middle of the skull where
the pineal gland is located.
This is the seat
of our intuition,
and even some say
the seat of our soul.
This is the energy center that
is most known for being equated
with our psychic abilities,
and it's done mainly
through our
clairvoyance, our ability
to perceive beyond
the physical realm
and into the metaphysical realm,
and even the non-physical realm.
So what we're able to do here is
really hone in on our intuition.
The third eye chakra
Sanskrit name, Ajna chakra,
means to command,
because this is
the region within
our energy field
where we awaken perspicacity.
When we say we wish to
have psychic abilities,
we normally are really
asking for perspicacity.
Perspicacity is the ability
to see clear distinctions
between similar things, even
down to their micro differences.
So this capacity is a
spiritual nuance in perception
that gives us command
over our perception,
and that is the dominant
function of the third eye
chakra.
It is our spiritual
sight beyond the vision
of our two physical eyes.
This chakra pierces
through all illusions
in order to perceive
what is real and true.
So the third eye either
sees or senses a phenomenon
in their true form.
Now, many times the
third eye chakra
is already open and
already activated
and we just don't realize
it because we may not
be perceiving the spiritual
realms or clairvoyant activity.
And that's fine, because third
eye activity also operates
through our mind's eye.
That's through our
imagination or what
we perceive in dream time and
even through our intuition.
So there are so many different
facets to this chakra,
and how we experience
them will not all line up,
but they will be always how we
best receive psychic information
through the third eye activity.
It's just going to be
different person to person.
And lastly, we have
the crown chakra.
This chakra is known as
the 1,000 petaled lotus,
which really just is pointing
to how it is omnidirectional.
It means it is in all
directions at all times
because it is our spiritual
link with God consciousness,
or what many of us know
as source consciousness.
Just like how the heart center
is the bridge between the higher
realms and the lower
realms, the crown chakra
is that bridge with source.
How we experience
this chakra directly
would be through
non-physical knowing,
also known as claircognizance.
That is what this energy
center represents.
It is the omnipresent
invisible knowing
from being directly connected
with our higher self
and even with source.
Because the crown chakra is our
link to source consciousness,
this is also where we
experience the most upgrades.
We usually have some
ambient energies
that we sense around
the crown center.
So this energy center
is the one that we
could look at as being
source consciousness,
but through the physical senses.
This is where we experience
our true divine nature
and our true
identity as divinity,
and how we receive information
through this center
is usually as we're in motion.
So many times we
equate crown chakra
activations or even
claircognizance
as an all-knowing ability,
when in reality, it's
an ability that gives us more
knowing when we're in motion,
when we need it, when we are
at that part of our own journey
when we're ready to receive it.
And that's what's so
important to understand
about claircognizance.
It's that instead of it
being an all-knowing,
it's more of when
we need to know.
So all of the chakras
have a distinct identity
and a distinct truth
that even represents
all of the dimensions
of our energy field
and all of the different
truths that our energy field
holds to make up
our ability to be
a physical and
spiritual identity here
in the physical realm.
How we can nurture the
development of these chakras
is first by understanding
that the lower chakras are all
going to be based off of
our emotional identity
and emotional body.
When it comes to security,
artistry, and our self-worth,
these are all themes
that are intimately
tied to our emotional body.
So how we can activate them best
is through emotional practices,
where we're able to feel
a sense of belonging
and feel a sense of
self-worth and really
understand what our
creative expression is
and who we are beyond
our sense of security.
This would best be where we
start utilizing shadow work,
even inner child work,
everything that helps us examine
where our fears are rooted from
and whatever needs to be healed
within us that we
typically don't understand,
is driving the
motivation behind our ego
and our lower frequency sense
of self and sense of identity.
All of these can really
be honed in on best
and activated through
somatic practices.
Somatic practices are always
responding and addressing
our visceral body and
our visceral tissue.
So when I'm talking specifically
about somatic practices,
I'm talking about the
nonverbal instinctual body,
the one that is
non-analytical and is more
feeling and sentient-based.
While, the higher
chakras are all more
linked with spiritual
practices, ones
that would best be
enhanced through
breathwork, through
meditation, things
that require our participation
and our discipline.
Because the higher
chakras are all
based off of our
ability to participate
in their purification
and be aware
of what we need in our
own mental landscape
and what mental projections,
concepts, and barriers
we need to dissolve
in order for these
to truly be able to activate
to their highest capacity.
Chakras function together
as an entire network.
They are our energy fields
holistic distributors of life
force and prana.
What this means is that they
are not isolated channels
of life force.
They respond and
react to one another.
If one chakra is experiencing
a certain impairment,
another chakra will start
to move out of balance
to lend its resources.
This creates a
domino effect, where
each chakra becomes directly
impacted by the other's blocks
and has to overcompensate
in some way.
How the chakras become
imbalanced by overcompensating
for one another will be
personal to each of us.
We can harmonize the
entire chakra network
through a powerful
mantra that brings them
all into alignment and with
resonance with each other,
just like a tuning fork
produces a fixed tone.
This mantra is LAM, VAM,
RAM, YAM HAM, AUM, OM.
When we say that
all together, it
goes LAM, VAM, RAM,
YAM, HAM, AUM, OM.
This mantra is a
very powerful tool
to align the entire
chakra network.
By understanding and
activating your chakras,
you tap into a
network of energy that
can propel you to new
heights of personal growth
and spiritual enlightenment.
Each chakra holds the key to
unlocking your hidden strengths
and transforming your
mind, body, and soul.
Unlock your limitless
potential and step
into the powerful, vibrant life
you were always meant to live.
[MUSIC PLAYING]